So, of course that we need to do
something more interesting, okay?
Not that one.
But before doing that I wanna
go back to the slides and
get a little deeper on Event Binding.
Because we're going to
have more event binding.
Right now we have only the add event
listener for DOM content loaded, but
let's see more on the basics
of event binding so
we will understand better
what we're going to do.
Each DOM element has a list of possible
events that we can listen to, and
there are a lot of events.
For example we have load, click,
double click yeah I'm not sure who is
double clicking on [CHUCKLE] elements on
the page but there is an event for that.
Change this has typically
to do with form elements so
when the contents of
that element is changing.
For example you have a drop down list
select in HTML and the user is changing
the selection well when that happens
a change event will be fired.
We have keyboard events key up
key down key press mouse events,
pointer and touch events for
example on an iPad I can detect
multiple fingers on the screen.
It's actually 11, don't ask me why 11 or
where should they get
the 11 finger [LAUGH] but
it detects 11 fingers on the screen and
for that you have the touch events, okay?
On a phone it's typically five
it depends on the hardware but
it is typically five, so
there are a lot of events we are not
going to cover use all the events
in this particular project.
But once you understand how to listen for
one event, you just need to go and
learn the documentation
of the other events.
The technique is the same technique
you have changed the event name And
the properties that you
get from that event.
We have a scroll,
we have focus events and
more APIs in the W3C that are even
adding more events to the DOM.
Okay, for example, drag and drop.
Apple TV support.
Okay, so
you can support streaming like casting,
video to an Apple TV or to a Google Cast.
And there are events that you
can that those are not standard.
So there are specific to those platforms
that then you can bind events you know
when an Apple TV appears
in the same network.
So then you can show the icon to
the Apple TV icon on your video player.
So if you have ever seen netflix.com
on the website, sometimes it detects
when you have a Chromecast in the
same network or an Apple TV.
Well, they're using DOM events APIs for
doing that.
And some specific objects.
They have a specific or special events
that are not suitable for all the events,
for example, DOMContentLoaded is one that
is applied only to the window object.
Or popstate is the one that we will
use probably in an hour or so.
And those are just for the window.
So if you try to listen for
those events on other elements,
nothing will happen, because those
events are not being fired there, okay?
The spec's naming pattern
is to use lowercase with no
word separator for event names.
We have seen one exception.
DOMContentLoaded.
That was not lowercased, why?
Standards.
Anyway, look at that event
that you have at the bottom.
I think that's the Guinness
record on the largest event name.
It's
webkitcurrentplaybacktargetiswirelesschan-
ged.
And that's the event name no Camel case,
no underscores, no hyphens
that's the event that will tell you when
you are transmitting video to an Apple TV.
When that Apple TV is off or
something happened in the network and
it's not available anymore.
So it's telling you that it's
changing wherever, okay?
But you will see that most of
the events are using this technique.
Also, for some reason,
also it's not completely,
let's say,
following the same naming guideline,
in terms of, if you're using for
example change or changed.
So if you use ed or e.
Most of the DOM APIs are not adding,
it's not clicked, it's click.
It's not changed, is change.
But when you are writing your own events,
or for example, in this case,
WebKit, that's Apple, for Apple TV,
they're writing their own events,
they're adding ed, or
even DomContentLoaded, unload.
So, they're not following
the same naming guidelines
here.
Okay, but let's say 99% of
the event names are lowercased,
no word separator, and no ed.
So it's like, click, change.
So to bind function to events in
DOM objects there are two ways,
onevent properties and addEventListener.
So far we've seen only addEventListener
but there is another one they say
it's more classic in fact it's been
with Dom since the first version.
AddEventListener is newer, anyway,
newer I'm talking about the last 20 years,
but the other one is 25 years.
That's the difference.
Onevent means that you have
one property for every event.
So instead of using load or
click, we can use onLoadOnClick.
For those of you coming from React.
You can feel that the on
naming pattern is also there,
with a difference or with a twist.
There you are using camel case.
Onclick, the C is a capital C, and
react, I'm talking about react.
Not on the DOM,
onclick everything is lowercase ,okay?
So what's the difference well for
example here you have
an example with an on. You
say element.oneventname and
function it's a property this case for
example onclick onload, okay?
Lowercase, all lowercase.
The problem with using this technique
is that it's a property setter and
getters If I assign twice different
functions to the same property,
the only one that is going
to be fired is the last one.
Okay?
Because it's a property.
You are setting, there is only place for
one eventHandler.
An add event Listener,
is using the observer design pattern,
also known as poly-subscribe, where
I can subscribe a lot of listeners or
observers and all of them will be fire.
So if I use this one,
only one element will be fired.
So that's why today it's typically,
unless it's a very simple example,
the very straightforward example.
You don't wanna use the on properties.
We wanna use addEventListener.
That receives the event
name as a string argument.
And then of course we can apply different
events to the same element with the same
event handler or different event handlers.
And if you apply to the same element
addEventListener with the same
event name more than one,
all the handlers will be executed.
So this is more interesting for
us when we are doing applications,
because then we can listen for
example DOMContentLoaded twice.
So window add event listener
DOMContentLoaded and
why this is better well, first,
we can separate concerns.
So we can say okay,
let's first initialize this.
Then I'm going to initialize the database,
and
then I'm going to initialize the
connection to a web socket to the server.
And we can do this in separate functions,
all of them will be fire and
also they don't need to be
defined in the same js file.
Now we're going to start adding more
JavaScript files in our project.
And then I can listen for the same
event on the same object more than
once without thinking,
did I already did that before?
Maybe I already bound that,
so I cannot do that again.
So it's more complicated.
In this case, yeah, I wanna listen for
a click of the button.
Go ahead if other if other parts
of your code is also listening for
that that's fine, it will work anyway
everyone will get its execution